tl;dr: I have cancer.
I tried a bunch of stuff.
Finally something is working.
Woo-hoo!

I was diagnosed in February 2023 with signet ring gastric carcinoma.
It was of an unknown stage.

I had no idea what caused it.
I had a history of H. pylori but so do many, many other asian males.
Then again, that's why Asian countries are much more aggressive about stomach cancer surveillance.

I have been through what feels like so many treatments.
First, my oncologist (a very famous one) told me I was lucky to have a DNA repair mutation.
He set me up with an immunotherapy.
It was hard to tell if it was working or not.
But in July I discovered through an exploratory surgery that the cancer was also in my peritoneum, the internal cavity around the organs.
It's hard to know if these metastases were there from the beginning or if this was genuine treatment failure.

The doctors then made the decision to change course.
The exploratory surgery had been in hopes to do a total gastrectomy to take out the stomach.
Instead, they added traditional chemotherapies (5-FU and oxaliplatin) to my immunotherapies.
These are not easy drugs to take, they knocked me out every other weekend, leaving me agonizing in bed.

To me, taking chemotherapy was the equivalent of waiting for treatment failure.
After treatment failure, they would switch to second-line and third-line therapies.
Then, I would die.
I wasn't interested in waiting for death.

Another doctor offered to do a novel procedure where they would directly apply heated chemotherapy to my peritoneum.
This technique, called HIPEC, had potential to clear my peritoneum and open the door to gastrectomy again.
Unfortunately, after 2 sessions of HIPEC over 3 months, the doctor wasn't seeing the results he wanted.
He told me I was no longer a good candidate for HIPEC in January.

After that, I kind of gave up.
Between January and March, I was off treatment.
I was waiting then for the right clinical trial to open up.
Thankfully in late March, an exciting new immunotherapy trial opened up for me.

It is now June and I have had two CT scans showing shrinking of tumors.
This was truly astonishing to me.
Up until this point, my 5-year survival rate was 5~10%.
Now I had a fighting chance.

Ironically, it was now that I decided to use my medical leave.
Before January, I was actually quite healthy.
In between chemotherapy, I lived pretty well.
Unfortunately, the 2 months of being off treatment had allowed the cancer to progress and damage my body.

This leaves me at the end of the story for now.
I had and have a lot of challenges to overcome.
Depression.
Pneumonia.
Weight loss.
And cancer still.

But I have hope!
Somehow a team out there developed a therapeutic for me that is now working!
While my life now is not easy, I have a future again.
This is so comforting to me, to think I may still walk the earth in 5 years.

I haven't tried writing my story down in a while.
Hopefully in a few months, I have more to tell.
I don't know what I hope to communicate through this.
On some level, this is screaming into a void, which is good for you.
However, if you've read to this point, I hope you walk away with an appreciation for life and a deeper understanding of what it means to live with cancer.
