tl;dr: I reflect on what it's like recovering from a variety of health challenges.

It's really quite hard to be objective with myself as a human being.
It's difficult to separate how I feel from how I am doing "objectively".
Specifically for me, it's hard to tell if I'm doing better physically because I'm doing better mentally, or vice versa.

I definitely needed to have some reorienting in terms of mental health.
For example, at first with eating, I was constantly disappointed with how little I could comfortably eat.
I wasn't gaining weight and that just disappointed me more.

Developing a healthier relationship with eating was a key goal of mine, especially after weeks of not eating well due to my ascites.
Even after draining my ascites, I found that I wasn't immediately bouncing back to eating well and looking forward to meals.

Then I tried to switch my attitude.
I focused on looking forward to eating what I liked.
I set a more reasonable goal of not losing weight rather than trying to gain weight.
Now, after a month, eating is more pleasant and my relationship with food has improved a lot.

How did that happen?
I think it just needed time.
Time for my mind to recondition itself to enjoying food, which is not hard for humans.
I think in this case, it was 70/30 mental/physical, where my physical condition hasn't changed dramatically but my mental condition improved a lot.

Another challenge I'm facing is my energy levels.
Two weeks ago, I felt like I was at 20% of baseline.
Now, I feel like I'm at 40%.
At the same time, a key attitude adjustment I needed was to focus on looking forward to what I could do rather than being disappointed at what I couldn't.

I'm now at the point where I can work on a programming problem for a whole day, and think "where did the time go".
Previously, I would have just felt tired and I would have wanted to go to bed.
I can enjoy playing piano, playing video games, and learning new programming libraries.

I think eating better definitely helped with energy, you can't have energy without food.
At the same time, I don't think I would have recovered as quickly without my attitude adjustment.
I would have recovered physically given enough time.
But having the right attitude was definitely a key to unlock that recovery.
I feel like here it was 30/70 mental/physical, where my physical condition actually has improved a lot.
But so has my mental health.

It's hard day-to-day to see how much I'm really improving.
Some days I get a little better and some days I get a little worse.
And that's hard, because as humans we have unreasonable thoughts like "I will only get better from here".

That's why you gotta try to be a little objective.
Two weeks ago, I was worried if I'd ever be able to return to work.
Now, I'm happily working on hobby projects eight hours a day.
I'm very confident I'll be able to return to work once I'm done with medical leave.

Ironically, objectivity required a little bit of hope.
I still have irrational fears like "what if my energy levels plateau at 40%" or "what if my pneumonia cough doesn't go away for months".
But I need to have hope in objectivity and objectivity in hope.
Just as I recovered in the past, I will recover more.

It's hard to maintain that hope, having lost so much already.
But hope is a key component to health and recovery.
Genuine objectivity requires hope, hope that overcomes my current negativity.

There were a few days where I really felt like giving up.
At my worst condition, I contemplated quitting treatments and even suicide.
But that's irrational and not very objective.
That was letting cancer win.

Let us guard our candle of hope, seeing more clearly just how precious it is.
No matter what kind of challenges we are facing, we will overcome.
